### Services and Databases
With this system the universe can be dynamically scaled based on the current activities in the game world. Other services and databases like the StarSim Economy Simulation, Dynamic Mission System, Item Cache, Account Database, etc. will be accessible to all game servers.

Ideally, all of these services will be designed in a way that allows them to be horizontally scaled, meaning they can be copied and distributed onto more than one data center. Or they all receive their own cache layer. To achieve a good performance, databases have to be replicated onto multiple data centers across the globe for all game server to have quick access. This also enables redundancy, basically the data is present in multiple identical databases, which in case of a database crash, a new database can quickly be spun up in its place by replicating the data from one of the other, still running databases. This might allow for one single world-wide instance where all players from around the world are able to play together without major interruptions and lag since there will always be a database server near a game server.

Theoretically, with later versions of Dynamic Server Meshing, game servers and Replicant and Gateway services could be geographically re-positioned on-the-fly to another data center where the latency of the currently connected players is the most similar to create a fair playing field for all players by reducing the chance of issues like peekers advantage from occurring. In general, as long as latency is stable and there is not a lot of jitter, network features (such as lag compensation and client side prediction) can guarantee a smooth and fair player experience even with higher latency to servers.

