### Summary and Future Features 2/2
With the first version of Server OCS, whenever an area of a level is unloaded onto the drive/database, the entities in those areas wont be computed in the game loop anymore, thus no changes are occurring. Essentially, that specific section of the world is frozen in time until a player moves back into that area again. That is not ideal in a simulated, immersive and economy driven universe.

To solve this, in the future, another server/service will take those unloaded areas and quickly simulate the time that has passed. This way, the computation resources required are greatly reduced by abstracting the simulation to a minimum. The universe would still appear alive. For example, NPCs who are busy repairing a ship wont have to be simulated running around and doing their job if no player is around to witness them doing it, only the ship hull values have to be increased in the database in the background. When a player enters the area again, the ship will be in a more repaired state compared to when the player left the area. Meanwhile, the NPCs are loaded back into the area again as if they were busy the entire time, even thought they did not actually exist to work on repairing the ship. This way, the entire universe will always feel alive, even thought most of the universe won't even be actively loaded and computed on the game servers themselves. This feature heavily relies on Global Persistence to be completed, since values have to be update in the database, then accessed and loaded into memory by the game servers. Simulating the game world on a higher abstraction level is also going to be the main functionality of the StarSim Economy Simualtor.

Another major future feature of Server OCS relying on Full Persistence as well will be Server Recovery. Once all states of all entities are continuously persisted into a database it becomes possible to recover a server after a crash. If a crash happens, a new server can be started in its place, the database provides the information about the entities that were present on the server at the time of the crash, load those entities back into memory via Server OCS and connect the player clients back to the server again. Therefore, in case of a server crash, players would only have to experience a couple seconds of interruption and barely any loss of progress in the game before being able to continue playing the game again where they left off.

