### Remaining Technical Limitations: Player Client = The Final Frontier
One final technical hurdle, that might not be completely overcome without some additional tricks and workarounds in the end, will be the rare scenario where thousands of players/entities are very close to each other and thus directly visible to the player client (like on a large flat surface on a planet). Even tho the game servers might be fine, the CPU/GPU computation on the player client might exceed its limits, resulting in dropping performance.

One way to push performance on the client would be to skip more network updates and simulation for further away objects to reduce the network bandwidth (Entity Component Update Scheduler can be improved to enable this). In terms of rendering, using the same, low level LOD asset for all far away player characters and vehicles would help with the rendering performance on the GPU (which may look worse but would still give the sense of a large, active crowd). But depending on the size of the crowd and the amount of objects, the experience might still not be great.

A drastic but simple workaround would be to limit the amount of objects to a small radius around the player (leading objects to pop-in and pop-out of existence in the distance), lockdown certain game areas via game mechanics (close jumppoints, NPC blockade, et.) or to create layers (parallel instances?) of the same area, taking into account friend and foe of players, but both of these solutions would have severe implications for gameplay that would need to be taken into account.

Anyways, in case of such a scenario, this quickly goes into the realm of major speculation with lots of possible solutions, so I guess we will leave it here and will know more once that point is reached. For the overwhelming majority of situations in the game, the system of Dynamic Server Meshing is expected to perform very well, because other players and objects will be far away or hidden inside buildings and ships and therefore can be hidden from the player client and reduce memory, CPU and GPU load to feasible levels without the need of workarounds.

